# Searching for Trends in Technology through Topic Modeling

# Abstract

  Throughout the course of the semester, various topics have been discussed in terms of gender and work. One of these topics 
  stood out to me and caught my interest. Women within the technology sector often have to deal with difficult situations while working 
  in a male-dominated environment. In order to better understand these conditions, an analysis of two different topic models was done to 
  study various trends that occurred from 1945 until now. The topic models have served as a visual indicator of some research questions 
  that framed the scope of this project. Some of the questions are as follows. 
  
  * What topics were being discussed since 1945?
  * Were women included in the conversation of technology and the feminist movement? 
  * Why are other trends being discussed within the feminist scholarship and not others?
  * Are there any noticeable trends that can correlate to external events occurring at that time?
  
These questions are going to be answered through the research and analysis that is done with the Signs@40 topic model and the topic model 
that was built by me using data from JSTOR. The Signs@40 topic model, which was developed by Andrew Goldstone, is an interactive topic 
model compiled of all Signs articles that were written from 1945 to 2014. Signs@40 was created in honor of four decades of feminist 
scholarship within the Signs journal. All of the research and comparisons between the two topic models will be displayed on GitHub, an 
online interactive platform.
  
  # Introduction
  
I have included a link to the Signs@40 topic model [here](http://signsat40.signsjournal.org/topic-model/) and a link to the topic model 
that I created [here](https://kaydub14.github.io/dh-topic-models-2/) as well. Feel free to open both links and compare the two topic
models as you read along to this analysis. After building my topic model and assigning a topic to each group of words within a bubble, I 
was able to compare the two topic models and notice the similarities and differences between the two. The setup of this analysis is going to be similarities first then differences and lastly how this is applicable to gender and work. 

# Similarities in Trends

There are a couple similarities in the trends within both topic models. The first similarity is that there are common topics that are 
repeated between the two. Topics such as "Motherhood", "Sexuality", "Labor", "Education", "Science, and "Spanish" were found to be 
topics that occurred within both topic models. I found this not to be shocking because these both were topics that were being discussed 
during the second wave of feminism. This is when things such as the lifestyle of women, sexuality, and work came into the nationwide 
conversation regarding women post World War II (Burkett, 1998). Both topic models are covering the past and also looking to the future 
in terms of science. Secondly, both of these topic models note that the feminist movement as a topic that was discussed within the 
feminist scholarship from 1945 until now. They highlight the importance of the women's movement due to the frequency of how often it was discussed within the scholarship.

# Differences in Trends

The differences between the two topic models were distinct. The first difference was that the *Signs@40* topic model was much larger 
than the one I created which is fine. A smaller topic model means that the coding algorithm will filter more words to make more cohesive 
topics. But the *Signs@40* topic model also had sixty nine years of history to cover, which means that the topic model has to be bigger 
to accommodate for that. However, if a topic model is too large, the words within the topics start to not make sense because they are 
too filtered. This also explains the absence of any topics that feminist scholars may know about but is not present within the topic models. Either there was not enough mention of the words relating to the topic or the algorithm simply did not pick up on that. 

The *Signs@40* topic model displayed a deeper sense of history by mentioning topics such as "France or Classics" and "War or Germany" 
while the topic model that I created only picked words regarding history. There wasn't much significance behind the words within each 
topic in the topic model that I created but within the *Signs@40* topic model, there were stories that could easily be picked out to 
correspond with what was occurring in historical context at the time. One would have to have knowledge of history to be able to 
correlate the topics with the historical context.  

Another interesting thing to note is that technology was mentioned within the *Signs@40* topic model regarding women and working in the technology field. I was interested to know if I would be able to pick up on the "Information Technology" topic if I expanded my topic model from twenty five topics to thirty or even forty topics. But I was not able to do so. However, I found it interesting that women in technology were being discussed in the 1900s but even today technology is still very much gendered. Women then had to fight to have a job within the technology sector. Today, women still have to fight in order to get to the top of a technology company if they want to and even after they reach the top. The technology sector remains largely male-dominated today and according to research, it will be for a long time until men use their privilege to help women reach the areas that are largely underrepresented. 

# Why Do We Care?

Why do we care about this analysis of two topic models from two different sources? One, we can compare and contrast differences in the 
articles and topics that were being discussed in feminist scholarship at various points through out the last several decades. Secondly, 
this could be a great tool used in the classroom to discuss how feminist scholarship has evolved over time as one could see the 
different trends in topics that were being discussed. Also, one could also see which topics were important at the various heights of the 
women's movement. These topic models can also serve as tools within the academic realm and help the current notable scholars see from a 
broad perspective what angles or issues could be discussed or what the next topic to be discussed next in the future will be. The future 
is far unknown in terms of what will happen next but it could be predicted as history has the tendency to repeat itself. The only new 
thing that history has to contend with is technology. However, with the visual aspect that these topic models provide, there is space 
within the women's studies to look at the progress that has been made over the years and look to the future to figure out how to push 
for better and more equal change for more women in the world. All I want is equality for all, regardless of race, sex, or gender. 
